# Sinasthma
Project for Epidemiology Methods II class
In the United States, children experience around 6 to 8 infections a year (American Academy of Pediatrics, 2001). Sinusitis is a condition where the mucous membranes that line the sinuses become inflamed (Dixon, 2009).  Correspondingly, asthma is a treatable condition whose prevalence in the United States among children 0 to 17 years of age has steadily increased over the past few years as more and more children are being diagnosed with the condition with health disparities widening the gap between the populations impacted by the condition (Akinbami, Simon, & Rossen, 2015). Sinusitis has been associated with asthma as being a trigger for an attack, resulting in worsening symptoms in individuals afflicted with the chronic condition (Dixon, 2009). Using the 2012 National Health Interview Survey, the purpose of this study is to determine the relationship between having sinusitis and presently having asthma in children 0 to 17 years of age. Furthermore, there are a number of factors that can influence the relationship between sinusitis and asthma therefore age will be considered as a potential effect modifier in this study.

A logistic regression will be done to analyze the data to determine if there is a relationship between having sinusitis and presently having asthma in children 0 to 17 years of age. The study population that will be observed are sample children in the 2012 National Health Interview Survey dataset, excluding children under the age of 4 and who has ever been told they have asthma. Of the children left, the study will focus on sample children that has ever been told they had sinusitis in the past 12 months which will serve as the independent variable (exposure) and they will be compared with children who have not been told they had sinusitis in the past 12 months to determine the relationship with if a child currently has asthma or had an asthma attack in the last 12 months which will serve as the dependent variable ‘Asthma Issues’ (outcome). 

A frequency distribution was done to identify how many cases have missing data. Additionally, a chi-square test can be done to compare the independent variable with the dependent variable. A logistic regression will need to be done to explain the relationship between the independent variable and the dichotomous dependent variable. Potential confounders that will be adjusted for are history of a respiratory allergy, sex, birthweight and race. For this study, age will be considered as a potential effect modifier and will be broken down to three levels: 4 to 8 years old, 9 to 13 years old, and 14+ years old. All in all, by conducting a logistic regression, the final model used to analyze the data will be done by adding all the variables.

References

Akinbami, L. J., Simon, A. E., & Rossen, L. M. (2015). Changing Trends in Asthma Prevalence Among Children. Pediatrics, 137(1). doi: 10.1542/peds.2015-2354

American Academy of Pediatric. (2001). Clinical Practice Guideline: Management of Sinusitis. Pediatrics. Sourced from https://pediatrics.aappublications.org/content/108/3/798

Dixon A. E. (2009). Rhinosinusitis and asthma: the missing link. Current opinion in pulmonary medicine, 15(1), 19–24. doi:10.1097/MCP.0b013e32831da87e
